docs: Update LayoutLMv3 model card with standardized format and impro… (#37155)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/model_doc/layoutlmv3.md

        <img alt="PyTorch" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-DE3412?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white">
        <img alt="SDPA" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SDPA-DE3412?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white">
    </div>
</div>

# LayoutLMv3

LayoutLMv3 is a powerful multimodal transformer model designed specifically for Document AI tasks. What makes it unique is its unified approach to handling both text and images in documents, using a simple yet effective architecture that combines patch embeddings with transformer layers. Unlike its predecessor LayoutLMv2, it uses a more streamlined approach with patch embeddings (similar to ViT) instead of a CNN backbone.

The model is pre-trained on three key objectives:
1. Masked Language Modeling (MLM) for text understanding
2. Masked Image Modeling (MIM) for visual understanding
3. Word-Patch Alignment (WPA) for learning cross-modal relationships

This unified architecture and training approach makes LayoutLMv3 particularly effective for both text-centric tasks (like form understanding and receipt analysis) and image-centric tasks (like document classification and layout analysis).

> [Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.08387) | [Official Checkpoints](https://huggingface.co/microsoft/layoutlmv3-base)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find all the original LayoutLMv3 checkpoints under the [LayoutLM](https://huggingface.co/collections/microsoft/layoutlm-6564539601de72cb631d0902) collection.
```

-->

> [![PyTorch](https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-1.12+-blue.svg)](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/)

Reviewer: Please style these with the `<div>` tags. You can copy it from one of the existing updated model cards on `main` like Gemma 3.

[![TensorFlow](https://img.shields.io/badge/TensorFlow-2.12+-orange.svg)](https://www.tensorflow.org/install)
[![Flax](https://img.shields.io/badge/Flax-0.6+-yellow.svg)](https://flax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html)
[![Safetensors](https://img.shields.io/badge/Safetensors-0.3+-green.svg)](https://huggingface.co/docs/safetensors/installation)
[![Flash Attention](https://img.shields.io/badge/Flash%20Attention-2.0+-blue.svg)](https://github.com/Dao-AILab/flash-attention)
[![SDPA](https://img.shields.io/badge/SDPA-2.0+-blue.svg)](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.functional.scaled_dot_product_attention.html)

# LayoutLMv3

> LayoutLMv3 is a powerful multimodal transformer model designed specifically for Document AI tasks. What makes it unique is its unified approach to handling both text and images in documents, using a simple yet effective architecture that combines patch embeddings with transformer layers. Unlike its predecessor LayoutLMv2, it uses a more streamlined approach with patch embeddings (similar to ViT) instead of a CNN backbone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[LayoutLMv3](https://huggingface.co/papers/2204.08387) is a multimodal transformer model designed specifically for Document AI tasks. It unites the pretraining objective for text and images, masked language and masked image modeling, and also includes a word-patch alignment objective for even stronger text and image alignment. The model architecture is also unified and uses a more streamlined approach with patch embeddings (similar to [ViT](./vit)) instead of a CNN backbone.
```

Reviewer: Not fully resolved yet, missing link to the model

> The model is pre-trained on three key objectives:
> 1. Masked Language Modeling (MLM) for text understanding
> 2. Masked Image Modeling (MIM) for visual understanding
> 3. Word-Patch Alignment (WPA) for learning cross-modal relationships
> 
> This unified architecture and training approach makes LayoutLMv3 particularly effective for both text-centric tasks (like form understanding and receipt analysis) and image-centric tasks (like document classification and layout analysis).
> 
> [Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.08387) | [Official Checkpoints](https://huggingface.co/microsoft/layoutlmv3-base)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This unified approach makes LayoutLMv3 especially effective for text-centric tasks (form understanding and receipt analysis) and image-centric tasks (document classification and layout analysis).

You can find all the original LayoutLMv3 checkpoints under the [LayoutLM](https://huggingface.co/collections/microsoft/layoutlm-6564539601de72cb631d0902) collection.
```

> <Tip>
> Click on the right sidebar for more examples of how to use the model for different tasks!
> </Tip>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!TIP]
> Click on the LayoutLMv3 models in the right sidebar for more examples of how to apply LayoutLMv3 to different vision and language tasks. 
```

Reviewer: Not resolved yet either

> ## Quick Start

Reviewer: Replace these headers (quick start, using the pipeline, automodel, etc.) with the `<hfoptions><hfoption>...</hfoption></hfoptions>` tags

> Here's a quick example of how to use LayoutLMv3 for document understanding:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below demonstrates how to answer a question based on an image with [`Pipeline`] or the [`AutoModel`] class.
```

Reviewer: Unresolved

> ```python

Reviewer: We can remove this code snippet

from transformers import LayoutLMv3Processor, LayoutLMv3ForSequenceClassification
from PIL import Image
import torch

# Load model and processor
processor = LayoutLMv3Processor.from_pretrained("microsoft/layoutlmv3-base")
model = LayoutLMv3ForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained("microsoft/layoutlmv3-base")

# Load and preprocess your document image
image = Image.open("document.jpg").convert("RGB")
encoding = processor(image, return_tensors="pt")

# Get predictions
outputs = model(**encoding)
predictions = torch.nn.functional.softmax(outputs.logits, dim=-1)
```

## Using the Pipeline

> The easiest way to use LayoutLMv3 is through the pipeline API:

Reviewer: The Pipeline example should be inside a `<hfoption>` block, and lets just focus on question answering with a real receipt image.

Reviewer: Unresolved as there are still other examples here besides question answering

```python
from transformers import pipeline

# For document classification
classifier = pipeline("document-classification", model="microsoft/layoutlmv3-base")
result = classifier("document.jpg")

# For token classification (e.g., form understanding)
token_classifier = pipeline("token-classification", model="microsoft/layoutlmv3-base")
result = token_classifier("form.jpg")

# For question answering

> qa = pipeline("document-question-answering", model="microsoft/layoutlmv3-base")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
qa = pipeline(task="document-question-answering", model="microsoft/layoutlmv3-base", torch_dtype=torch.bfloat16, device=0)
```

Reviewer: Unresolved

result = qa(question="What is the total amount?", image="receipt.jpg")
```

> ## Using AutoModel

Reviewer: This should be contained in an `<hfoption>` block as well

You can also use the AutoModel classes for more flexibility:

```python
from transformers import AutoModelForDocumentQuestionAnswering, AutoProcessor

# Load model and processor
processor = AutoProcessor.from_pretrained("microsoft/layoutlmv3-base")
model = AutoModelForDocumentQuestionAnswering.from_pretrained("microsoft/layoutlmv3-base")

# Process inputs
image = Image.open("document.jpg").convert("RGB")
encoding = processor(image, return_tensors="pt")

# Get predictions
outputs = model(**encoding)
```

> ## Using transformers-cli

Reviewer: We can remove this since `transformers-cli` doesn't support image inputs

Reviewer: Unresolved

For quick inference from the command line:

```bash
transformers-cli document-classification "document.jpg" --model microsoft/layoutlmv3-base
```

> ## Quantization
> 
> For large models, you can use quantization to reduce memory usage:

Reviewer: Update the code example below accordingly

```suggestion
Quantization reduces the memory burden of large models by representing the weights in a lower precision. Refer to the [Quantization](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/quantization/overview) overview for more available quantization backends.

The example below uses [torchao](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/quantization/torchao) to only quantize the weights to int4.
```

Reviewer: Not resolved yet. You only need to show quantization for either 8 or 4-bits instead of both. Also the code for quantizing the model is incorrect.

```python
from transformers import LayoutLMv3Processor, LayoutLMv3ForSequenceClassification
import torch

# Load model with 8-bit quantization
model = LayoutLMv3ForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained(
    "microsoft/layoutlmv3-base",
    load_in_8bit=True,
    device_map="auto"
)

# Or with 4-bit quantization
model = LayoutLMv3ForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained(
    "microsoft/layoutlmv3-base",
    load_in_4bit=True,
    device_map="auto"
)
```

> ## Attention Visualization

Reviewer: I don't think the attention visualizer is supported for this model yet

You can visualize the attention patterns using the AttentionMaskVisualizer:

```python
from transformers import LayoutLMv3Processor, LayoutLMv3Model
from transformers.utils.visualization import AttentionMaskVisualizer
from PIL import Image

# Load model and processor
processor = LayoutLMv3Processor.from_pretrained("microsoft/layoutlmv3-base")
model = LayoutLMv3Model.from_pretrained("microsoft/layoutlmv3-base")

# Process image
image = Image.open("document.jpg").convert("RGB")
encoding = processor(image, return_tensors="pt")

# Get attention weights
outputs = model(**encoding, output_attentions=True)

# Visualize attention
visualizer = AttentionMaskVisualizer()
visualizer.visualize_attention(
    image,
    outputs.attentions[-1][0],  # Last layer attention
    processor.tokenizer
)
```

> ## Usage tips

Reviewer: Add a `## Notes` section here about [data processing](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/model_doc/layoutlmv3#usage-tips)

**Document question answering**
- [Document question answering task guide](../tasks/document_question_answering)

> ## Model Details

Reviewer: The rest of these changes should be reverted

Reviewer: Not resolved yet, the `## Model Details` is still there as are the changes to the header levels of the LayoutLMv3 classes
